# Competition parameter sweep

These scripts simulate different values for the competition parameter for species $F_1$ and $F_2$. Plots are generated for population density across space when populations reach a steady state, change in a species' range over generations, and change in spread speed over generations. 

Four new directories are created when the script is run:

- The `tau_sweep/` directory stores subdirectories for each simulation, with each file generated by the simulation (.m file, .mat file, .fig files, and .png files). 
 
- The `m_files/` directory stores shortcuts to the .m file used to run each simulation with the given parameter values.

- Shortcuts to the different plots are stored in the `figures/` directory for easier access and comparison. Note that these shortcuts will not work if the `tau_sweep/` directory is moved or changed.

- The `mat_files/` directory stores shortcuts to the results for each simulation. This is needed for the heatmap plot classifying outcomes.

**Note:** To remotely transfer one of these shortcuts directories to a local computer, use `rsync -L` to convert symlinks into actual file locations.

## Run competition parameter sweep

Copy the `sweep/` directory to the supercomputer where you will run the parameter sweep. 

The range of values for the parameter sweep is specified in the `tau_sweep.sh` script.

Be sure to configure the Slurm parameters in the `tau_jobscript.sh` file (the `#SBATCH` lines at the top).

The scripts assume that `sweep/` is located in the user's home directory. Change `BASEDIR=` in `tau_sweep.sh` and `tau_jobscript.sh` to run from a different location. All generated files will be stored in this directory.

Running the `tau_sweep.sh` script will start the sweep.
